# Agent Flow

## TL;DR

- we have items 📦 containing information
- we have belts 🏗️ moving items around
- we have agents 🤖 taking items 📦 in and releasing higher value items 🎁 out

### Agent 🤖

- agent has an inbox 📥 and an outbox 📤
- a belt 🏗️ brings in items 📦 to the inbox
- a belt 🏗️ takes processed items 🎁 from the outbox
- agent processes items one by one, taking them out of the inbox and putting
  them in the outbox

#### Agent as a Company 🏢

You can consider any company creating value as an agent.

- company takes in raw materials 📦
- processes them 🤖
- releases higher value product 🎁

Difference is the level of abstraction.

Nesting systems many levels deep can create an agent that looks, acts and
behaves like a company - because a company is precisely that - a system changing
lower value items 📦 into higher value items 🎁.

Details are hidden away in deeper layers of smaller agents, doing smaller
subtasks connected together with belts moving half baked goods between their
inboxes and outboxes, all invisible simply because walls of the company building
🏢 take away your ability to observe them.

All they want us to see is the item falling out 🎁 and think it appeared like
magic. But we are not idiots and know nothing appears out of thin air. A chain
of steps created it.

There is a method to the madness, and Agent Flow is here to not only show you
exactly how it works, but also allowing you to literally make a copy of any
useful part of any company, and start changing everything to work like you want
it to work, down to the last nut and bolt, for your own purposes.

With the force of Open Source behind us, we can now share and collaborate on
building blueprints for all the jobs in all of the departments of all companies,
and make them work locally on our own computers for any purpose we want.

Agent Flow allows us to do this without paying anyone for the privilege, and
certainly without asking any big brother for permission to do it on our own
computers privately in our own homes!

### Process 🔄

Practical examples in the [Agent Flow Handbook](./HOWTO.md) give you the missing
link which companies hide away from you: observability of the process.

## Philosophy of Agent Flow

Harnessing the power of AI, Agent Flow enables you to process information
efficiently and precisely, while maintaining a clear understanding and complete
control over your systems.

### Bridging the Efficiency Gap

The core objective of Agent Flow is to empower you, the user, to build systems
that process information efficiently, similar to how modern workflows are
optimized. Imagine streamlining your processes, automating repetitive tasks, and
maximizing your productivity – Agent Flow makes it possible.

#### Physical vs. Knowledge Work

There are notable differences between physical manufacturing and knowledge work.
While physical factories have benefited from optimization through automation and
digital technology, knowledge work has often relied more heavily on manual
processes.

#### Rise of Digital Technology

The 20th century witnessed the revolutionary introduction of digital technology,
laying the foundation for the computer revolution and the information age.
Computers emerged as powerful tools, enabling knowledge workers to process
information at unprecedented speeds.

However, a bottleneck remained: humans can be slower and more error-prone
compared to automated systems for certain tasks. Finding the right balance of
human insight and machine efficiency is key.

#### Learning from the Past

The industrial revolution and the evolution of physical manufacturing offer
valuable insights. Over a century of optimization has resulted in efficient
processes and best practices. Agent Flow draws inspiration from these methods,
adapting them to information processing.

#### The Potential of AI

Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to help bridge the gap between
physical and knowledge work. AI agents can process certain types of information
with precision and reliability. They can perform repetitive tasks tirelessly and
quickly.

#### Embracing Agent Flow

Agent Flow represents a new approach to information processing, where AI agents
can play a key role. This frees up humans to focus on strategic decision-making,
creative problem-solving, and tasks requiring human insight and judgment.

The goal is to optimize human time while leveraging the strengths of digital
agents. Finding the right human-AI collaboration is the path forward.

### Intuitive Interface Design

Agent Flow's user interface draws inspiration from intuitive approaches to
building and managing complex systems. This design philosophy translates into a
visual representation of information flow, allowing you to easily understand,
modify, and optimize your processes.

Imagine building your information processing system step-by-step. Start with the
basics, gather data, and gradually automate processes, creating a streamlined
and efficient system tailored to your specific needs.

Agent Flow empowers you to visualize the flow of information, making it
accessible and understandable to users of various backgrounds. This transparency
allows you to maintain control, make informed decisions, and achieve optimal
results.

#### The Power of Visualization

The strength of Agent Flow lies in its simplicity, enabling you to design
systems in an intuitive way.

You can experiment, iterate, and learn as you go. If something doesn't work, you
can visually identify the issue and make improvements. It's all part of the
process of designing efficient flows.

The technology you are using right now to read this is the result of long chains
of transformations and innovation by many different people working together.
Agent Flow aims to make designing such impactful systems more accessible to all.

## From theory to practice

The beauty of Agent Flow lies in its simplicity, enabling you to design complex
systems the same way players design factories in Factorio.

Don't believe us? A short fun YouTube video explaining
[Software engineering patterns in Factorio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vPdUjLqC15Q)
might convince you.

#### Warning ⚠️

As you dive into the world of Agent Flow, be prepared for an exciting journey of
productivity and automation. You might find yourself so engrossed in optimizing
your workflows that, before you know it, you're reaping the rewards of your
machine's tireless efforts – all while you sit back and marvel at the results.

But wait, there's more! As you become a master of automation, you might even
venture into the realm of creating systems that generate new systems. It's like
having your own personal army of productivity bots, multiplying your output
exponentially. Imagine the possibilities – new inventions sprouting up daily,
and you getting to enjoy the fruits of their labor.

In the olden days, they might have called this building a company. But in this
day and age, it's more like a delightful hobby – a game of sorts, where you get
to flex your creativity and have a blast while you're at it.

Now, if at any point you start feeling a tad guilty about all the "unearned"
wealth pouring in, no worries! You can always pay it forward by donating a
portion of your newfound riches to support our project. Together, we can make
the world a better place, one automated system at a time.

So, are you ready to embark on this thrilling adventure? Buckle up and enjoy the
ride!
