# Cybermanufacturing Systems

The **_Industrial Internet of Things: Cybermanufacturing Systems_** book
explores the fusion of the physical and digital worlds in manufacturing through
the application of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). It dives into how this fusion,
often called Industry 4.0, can revolutionize factories by making them "smart"
and capable of producing highly customized goods efficiently.

## Key takeaways

### CPS as the cornerstone

The book emphasizes CPS as the foundation for building smart factories, enabling
data exchange and coordinated action between machines, robots, and human
workers.

### Moving from centralized to decentralized

It highlights the shift from traditional, inflexible production lines to
decentralized, adaptable systems where CPS take local decisions and react to
changing conditions, enhancing flexibility and robustness.

### Knowledge-based approaches

The book explores how knowledge-based systems can be used for intelligent task
planning, resource allocation, and decision making in smart factories. Several
examples of such systems built using CLIPS, OpenPRS, and YAGI are presented.

### Sensor Systems as the senses of CPS

Sensors play a crucial role in collecting information about machines, products,
and the environment, allowing CPS to perceive and react to their surroundings.
It also discusses sensor fusion, where combining data from multiple sensors can
lead to more comprehensive insights than analyzing data individually.

### Closing the loop with Big Data and Machine Learning

Collected data can be leveraged to learn models of normal system behavior,
enabling anomaly detection (e.g., condition monitoring), root cause analysis
(diagnosis), and self-optimization (e.g., energy optimization).

### Human-Machine Interaction

Human workers are still crucial in smart factories. They interact with CPS, take
higher-level decisions, and even act as "role models" for robots, requiring new
skills and collaborative capabilities. Intuitive interfaces, like tech apps, are
needed to support this interaction.

### Smart Services and Business Models

The book highlights how data-driven approaches can create new opportunities for
intelligent maintenance, remote operation, and innovative business models,
shifting from product ownership to service-based solutions.

### Bridging the gap

A key takeaway is the need for greater collaboration between computer science
researchers and industrial users to adapt existing knowledge-based methods and
technologies for industrial applications.

## Resources

- [Industrial Internet of Things: Cybermanufacturing Systems (Springer Series in Wireless Technology)](https://www.amazon.com/Industrial-Internet-Things-Cybermanufacturing-Technology-ebook/dp/B01M6WC0GK)
